Add GraphQL/REST info for uploading files to ACCS (#489)
AdobeDocs/commerce-webapi: src/pages/rest/modules/s3-uploads/index.md

---
title: Upload files to Amazon S3
description: Learn how to manage file and image uploads using REST.
edition: saas
keywords:
  - REST
  - Integration
---

# Upload files to Amazon S3

> Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service (SaaS) supports file uploads through GraphQL mutations. This feature allows you to upload images to Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3). [Sharing objects with presigned URLs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ShareObjectPreSignedURL.html) describes how presigned URLs work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adobe Commerce as a Cloud Service (SaaS) supports file uploads through REST endpoints. This feature allows you to upload images to Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3). [Sharing objects with presigned URLs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/userguide/ShareObjectPreSignedURL.html) describes how presigned URLs work.
```

1. **Upload the file**: The client code uses the presigned URL to upload the file directly to an Amazon S3 bucket. This is done using a standard HTTP PUT request. The file is uploaded to a temporary location in the S3 bucket. [](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/API/API_PutObject.html)

1. **Finalize the upload**: After the file is successfully uploaded to S3, the client code calls the `POST V1/media/finish-upload` endpoint to complete the upload process. The mutation includes the unique key received from the `initiate-upload` response.

1. **Perform validation**: Commerce validates key and size (HEAD on S3 Temporary).

1. **Move the file**: Commerce performs a `CopyObject` operation to move the file from the temporary location to a permanent location in the S3 bucket.

1. **Receive the final response**: The response from the `POST V1/media/finish-upload` endpoint includes the unique key for the uploaded file. The client code extracts this key from the response.

> 1. **Create or update the entity**: After `POST V1/media/finish-upload` endpoint succeeds, the client creates or updates the entity (such as a customer) using the returned hashed key as the attribute value, not a URL or full S3 path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Create or update the entity**: After `POST V1/media/finish-upload` succeeds, the client creates or updates the entity (such as a category image) using the returned hashed key as the attribute value, not a URL or full S3 path.
```

The call requires an IMS access token.

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://<server>.commerce.adobe.com/<tenant-id>/V1/media/initiate-upload \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <ACCESS_TOKEN>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
    "key": "1.png",
    "media_resource_type": "CATEGORY_IMAGE"
}'
```

## Upload the file to S3

The following curl command demonstrates how to upload a file using the presigned URL returned by the `POST V1/media/initiate-upload` call:

```bash
curl --fail --show-error --silent -X PUT --data-binary @./cat.jpg 'https://s3.amazonaws.com/na1-qa-ccsaas-instance-presigned/<tenant>/cat_106d42b2ee34de81db31d958.jpg?X-Amz-Content-Sha256=UNSIGNED-PAYLOAD&X-Amz-Security-Token=...&X-Amz-Algorithm=AWS4-HMAC-SHA256&X-Amz-Credential=...&X-Amz-Date=...&X-Amz-SignedHeaders=host&X-Amz-Expires=...&X-Amz-Signature=...'
```

## Finish the upload

Use the `POST V1/media/finish-upload` endpoint to complete the upload process after the file is successfully uploaded to S3. This endpoint includes the unique key received from the `initiate-upload` response.

> When you call this endpoint, Commerce verifies that the file associated with the provided key has been successfully uploaded to the S3 bucket. If the upload is confirmed, Commerce finalizes the upload process and makes the file available for use within the system. The response from the `finish-upload` endpoint includes the unique key for the uploaded file. This key can be used to reference the file in subsequent operations, such as associating it with a customer file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you call this endpoint, Commerce verifies that the file associated with the provided key has been successfully uploaded to the S3 bucket. If the upload is confirmed, Commerce finalizes the upload process and makes the file available for use within the system. The response from the `finish-upload` endpoint includes the unique key for the uploaded file. This key can be used to reference the file in subsequent operations, such as associating it with a category image attribute.
```

```bash
curl --request POST \
  --url https://server.commerce.adobe.com/<tenant-id>/V1/media/finish-upload \
  --header 'Authorization: Bearer <ACCESS_TOKEN>' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{
    "key": "<KEY_FROM_INITIATION>",
    "media_resource_type": "CATEGORY_IMAGE"
  }
```

## Add the uploaded file to an entity

> Your Adobe Commerce instance must define a customer custom attribute that has an input type of `file` or `image`. Navigate to **Stores** > **Attributes** > **Product** in the Admin and click **Add Attribute**. Your custom attribute must have the following properties:
> 
> * **Attribute Code**: A unique identifier for the attribute, such as `image`.
> 
> * **Input Type**: Set to **File (attachment)** or **Image file**.
> 
> * **Maximum File Size**: The default file size limit on S3 is 16 MB (16777216 bytes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your Adobe Commerce instance must define the target attribute. For REST (CATEGORY_IMAGE), assign the returned key to the category image attribute when creating the category.
```

> Once the custom attribute is created, you can use the key returned by the `finishUpload` mutation to set the value of the attribute when creating or updating a customer. For example, if the custom attribute code is `custom_image`, you would include it in the payload of the `/V1/categories` call as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Example:
```

```json
{
    "category": {
        "parent_id": "2",
    "name": "One",
    "is_active": true,
    "include_in_menu": true,
        "custom_attributes": [
            {

>                 "attribute_code": "custom_image",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "attribute_code": "image",
```
EAV attribute code is image
